>> Hello I'm Chantel Westerman.
One of the best parts
of the Wisdom Workshops
are the up close and
personal conversations
with the leading
practitioners and authors
in the holistic field.
This gives all of
us an opportunity
to know these people
just a little bit better.
So join me as they share
their wisdom with us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I have noticed in
your most recent book,
"At Peace in the Light," you
dedicated it to baby boomers.
Being one, of course
I'm delighted.
But what made you do that?
>> Well, because baby
boomers, we are the largest,
expanded population growth
in the history of Western
consciousness.
We're at a place
in our lives, born
between 1939 and
'40 and 1964, we're
in a place where
we are the power.
We're in the middle
of our lives.
We have a perspective
that is strong.
We've come through
a lot of stuff.
And we're also at the
point where so many of us
will lose our moms and
dads, brothers, and sisters,
and aunts, and uncles
at the same time,
literally everybody
in our age group.
So we're all going to know each
other who's losing someone.
By taking that power, and
the power of the quality
and the dignity of
those people who we love
and who have loved us, we have
the possibility and capability
of altering
consciousness forever.
Because if we understand
death as a process,
and we understand it the way
that I think I understand it--
because of going through
three near-death experiences,
and being a hospice
volunteer for over 23 years,
and being with more
than 170 people--
to change that
mindset will change
how we view war,
the world ourselves,
and our spirituality.
>> Well, let's start
at the beginning then.
Why is it do you suppose--
and if anybody would know, I
would think it would be you--
why are we so
terrified of death?
It's like Woody Allen says--
doesn't Woody Allen say--
I'm not afraid of
death, I just don't want
to be there when it happens?
>> Oh, that's wonderful.
I'll remember that.
>> That's what Woody Allen says.
>> We are taught Chantel--
we are taught to be afraid--
religions, institutions,
and governments.
There is also an innate nature
within the human experience
of the unknown, or fear of that.
And so with those combinations,
and a lot of religious dogma
and fervor, a lot of
institutional play
psychologies, like in
medicine, and that death
is an evil villain that
you always must defeat,
and these kinds of
psychologies, we have--
and then a so-called cult
attachment to it from
a religious context--
then we have a whole world
that has supported us
in being afraid.
But we, of the baby
boomer generation,
we don't have a choice.
It's our moms and dads, it's
not a statistic, or psychology,
or something happening
way off somewhere else.
It's our moms and dads, and
our brothers and sisters,
we must deal with it.
We must face it.
And we must find a way
to, in our own lives,
be able to look at it,
so we can help our moms
and dads in their transition
in making the right decisions.
>> Now, of course, you know
it's astonishing for some people
to hear you say, I died.
In fact, I died twice.
Some people probably
don't believe you.
>> I don't blame them.
I would have never believed
any of this, Chantel.
I mean, I'm a jerk
from South Carolina.
I'm 48 years old, redneck.
I grew up deep of the Carolinas.
You know, everybody goes
to hell where I come from.
And I don't buy into that.
When I heard all that
stuff growing up,
all that fire and
brimstone, I don't buy it.
And people who do whole
life expos and stuff
like this, and people who
even watch the Wisdom Channel,
I said they're retarded.
Until you get hit in the
neck by a bolt of lightning.
You're dead for 28 minutes.
You're completely paralyzed for
six days, partially paralyzed
for seven months.
It takes you two years to learn
to walk and feed yourself.
You lose about fifty pounds.
You wear welder's
glasses for four years.
And you walk with
canes and crutches.
Then you all of a sudden
change your perspective
about the game.
>> You did that?
Hello.
And then I had a near-death
experience on top of that.
Not only did I feel
the searing pain
and the horror of a
literally terminal accident--
catastrophic accident--
that would kill anybody.
>> Yes.
>> I had a near-death
experience,
where I lifted out of my
body, moved down a tunnel,
came into a place of
light and wonderment,
explored my own self, the
panoramic life review.
Moved to great
cities and mansions,
great, what you would
call mansions, but great
crystal cities, and
places of learning,
and a whole world that
I never even thought
existed or wouldn't
of believed it.
But it's over there
and it's there.
So if people don't
believe it, that's OK.
We have our rights.
But you better
believe something,
because if you leave
your mom in a hospital,
or you leave them in a managed
care system, or your brother
or your sister, and you watch
the torture that goes on,
and you watch what happens to
the dignity and quality of life
as we have received death today,
then you have done an evil.
You have done something
that takes away
from the quality of
people who have loved you.
So I changed that.
I have been through three
near-death experiences,
one death experience--
struck by lightning.
But because of this--
I got struck by
lightning again in 1978.
And in 1989, I collapsed
and had a heart failure,
and had to have emergency
open heart surgery,
with no chance to survive.
And in 1997, because of
complications from my heart,
from complications
from the lightning,
I had three subdural
hematomas explode in my brain.
And I had to have
brain surgery with less
than a 8% chance of survival.
They were going to
cut my scalp open,
take away a third of my
skull, cut my chest open
at the same time, so that
they could work on my heart.
Because of the blood
clots would kill me
after open heart surgery.
>> I would say two near-death
and one death experience
qualifies as some very,
very powerful messages.
I wonder if you know where
they came from, these messages.
>> Well, there are
two points to this.
The first thing,
Chantel, is the system
by which we leave this world.
I have been through
the system three times.
Whoever created this system,
by where you lift out
of your body, you
move down to a tunnel,
you come to a place of
brilliant, beautiful light,
you're met by
relatives and friends.
You have a panoramic
life review.
And then you move on into
a more expansive wonderment
about yourself.
Whoever created this
loved us dearly.
I think that the messages
come from my spiritual self
and my connectedness to
spirituality on the other side.
We are great powerful and
mighty spiritual beings.
That is home.
This is just some place
we come to do a job.
And we do it well
and we go back home.
So where this message comes from
is, number one, hi, Dannion,
you idiot.
We have to keep you on track.
And your head is
so hard, we have
to kill you to get
your attention.
OK, now, I think that's what my
spiritual self is teaching me.
And I have to learn
it really tough.
But that side over there
is where we are from.
It is a whole systems that
I don't really comprehend
or have language to describe.
But this is our home.
It has many diverse levels and
more dynamic and more wondrous
than here.
But it is an opportunity to
develop spiritual greatness
by coming here.
This is the proving
ground, the training area,
the place to become
almost godlike yourself
with those types of
responsibilities.
>> Do we all leave that way?
>> Yes.
>> Is that a reason
not to be afraid?
Because I think people
are afraid to die,
because they're afraid
of the darkness.
They're afraid of the pain.
They're afraid of the unknown.
So you tell us that the way
we die is in light and love.
>> The most beautiful
art form ever created.
>> Really?
>> The transition from
this world back home.
I don't know about birth.
It seems to me if I think
of birth in the same context
as I look at death,
you come from
to be the most awesome,
powerful, mighty spiritual
being, with greatness about you.
And then you marry yourself
to live on a head of a pin.
You block off your own
spiritual consciousness
an understanding
of who you are, so
that you can develop
and explore a world,
physically and mentally,
as opposed to spiritually.
And at the same time accomplish
greatness for the heavenly host
to achieve.
So I think I'd
whole lot rather be
leaving this world then
coming into it, when
I think of those two.
>> When you put it that way--
>> No one should fear death.
It is wrong the way that we
of the Western consciousness
have separated from the fact
that it's a part of life.
The more we embrace
it, the more we
understand it, the greater
we understand and love
this life that we have.
And we have no fear.
I have absolutely no fear
of leaving this world
after having these three
experiences, absolutely none.
It's a basic concept that
comes from those of us who have
had near-death experiences.
>> You're right.
You're absolutely right.
Because everyone I
have talked to who
has had a near-death experience
somehow, oddly enough, make me
and everyone who watches
Wisdom, comfortable and unafraid
of the idea of death.
Now, that's a powerful message.
>> Absolutely.
But I think one of the other
messages that Wisdom channel is
offering too, is
an ancillary way
to look at all this information.
A way to look at yourself from
a spiritual point of view.
This is the wonderment of what's
happening in this revolution.
And that this is
on the forefront.
We who live in this world,
where death is nothing to me--
it's just something you
help families get through
and you help that person make
their transition properly,
and I send another
brother and sister home.
>> Oh no, wait.
I have to stop you there.
Death is a big deal.
And death is a very big deal
to those people who you help.
So let's talk about,
for just a bit,
what your experiences have led
you to, which is hospice work.
Which by the way, is another
thing that frightens people.
You're around people
who die all day.
Dan--
>> Yeah, you're right, Chantel.
>> Oh my gosh, you're around--
what do you mean,
you help people die?
How do you help someone die?
>> Every way I know how.
When you go through
the experience--
I not only know what
it's like to be afraid,
I know what it's
like to face death.
I know what it's like to
die, to see the other side,
and to come back.
I know.
I have been struck by
lightning, electrocuted.
I have had open heart surgery.
I have had brain surgery.
I have had such
critical situations
that I understand what it's
like to look up at the ceiling
and what it's like
also to look down.
I've been both people.
What led me to hospice was me.
I was my first hospice patient.
They sent me home to die.
And from there, as I studied
that I was not going to die,
and everything and how I
watched people react to me,
knowing what I looked like as
I emaciated away and atrophy
was setting in,
what I looked like,
and the horror that
came in their life.
And also being intuitive, I
knew I could do something.
I knew there was something
in my life that could affect,
and I could affect change, in
me and in people around me.
And I began to do hospice work.
Then I--
>> So-- so, then
your work today,
is not only teaching us to
be unafraid of the concept
of death, but
literally how to die.
>> Oh, an art form.
Literally, how to help a family.
I can teach a person
how to be intuitive.
I can teach a person how to
become a transition specialist.
I believe that there are
those of us who come--
and there are a
lot of the people
who listen to my
programs and shows,
and who become a part
of compassion and action
that are trained to do this.
>> Let's be clear, so people
watching this understand what
we're talking about.
When you say, compassion and
action, that's your program.
>> Compassion and action--
>> That's your project.
>> It's my life's work.
Compassion and action
is a foundation
that trains people to
help those they love
and who love them
make that transition.
Today there are 32,420
combat WWII veterans leaving
this world every 30 days.
They need us.
We were there-- they
were there for us,
and we must be there for them--
32,000.
We don't have a choice but
to learn and know death
as it truly is, as opposed to
what we've been being taught.
And then it gives
us a chance-- when
you're not afraid of
dying, Chantel, then you're
not afraid of living.
And wisdom and knowledge
becomes the power.
I have so much more
of my life that I
can explore things, that air
on these shows, these programs.
I know you don't die.
That doesn't mean
I know everything.
I know that you're a powerful
and mighty spiritual being,
but I don't know about
the pyramids or some
of the great mystical
things that we've all
been taught about that
now we know are true.
And I want to learn about them.
>> Even if the greatest skeptic
in the world were to sit down
in a room with you, he
couldn't help but feel your--
dare I say, vibration--
your energy.
I mean, it's very,
very powerful.
Do you think this
comes from your work?
>> Partially.
I think because
I'm a windowpane.
Not the sun that shines,
nor the warmth that enters
a room on a hot August day.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just a means by which
that light can pass to this
world.
When you're not
afraid of death, you
open up your spiritual self.
You don't shut off the source
of your true life, which is what
they say happens when you die.
It's the source of your life.
What flows through
me and the sheer joy
of knowing that I can make
a difference in the life
of a person, who is
terrified, and a family trying
to make the right decisions.
I can train people to be
that, a transition specialist.
To be able to know when you
walk out of that room that day,
you have helped a person pass
home, safe and protected.
And you've given a
family quality of dignity
in the life of how they handled
it, a way to have closure.
It's as much what I
train people to do
to help that family
that stays behind
as those who go on ahead.
Because I think that
molds the family unit.
It puts a spiritual context.
It gives a place to
resolve so many issues
and have closure on
a part of their life,
so that they can open up
collectively and grow together
in their new life.
And they can seek wisdom.
They can seek knowledge,
and seek a unity and a love
for each other, that I think
will pull back together what's
happening to this country
and the rest of the world.
>> How many years have
you been in hospice work?
>> 23 years.
November becomes my 22
years, because November
becomes my 23rd year.
>> That's amazing that
you've done it for that long.
>> I love it.
I love it.
Yes, there's sad days.
>> Of course.
>> Yes, there's some stuff where
you have to go off and cry.
I love it, because I
know that if I help
those who leave this world--
and I help them
leave this world--
>> Literally.
>> You're there
holding their hand.
>> Holding their hand
and talking to them,
using my techniques--
aromatherapy, color therapy,
music therapy,
subtle energy, touch.
Certain things like this, the
complementary alternatives that
reduces pain, reduces medicine,
and the feeling of someone
there who cares and who loves
you, that you've never met--
it changes.
But also remember this,
Chantel, the next person
they're going to see is
that powerful, mighty
spiritual being.
And I always tell them
just before they go, psst,
tell him I'm doing a good job
when you get over there, you
know what I mean, because
you kind of stack the deck.
If you know you don't die--
and I know you don't die,
and I know where they go.
I know who they're going to see.
Don't you think I'm
pretty smart by becoming
a hospice volunteer.
>> Having done it 22
years, my question is,
what changes have you
seen for the better?
Because certainly
22 years ago, people
were saying, hospice work,
dying, spiritual beings,
yeah, OK.
>> That's a great--
>> How has it changed?
>> That's a great
question, Chantel.
I have seen a revolution.
>> Wow.
>> The near-death experience
has pulled the value of death
to mainstream.
And that we, the baby
boomers, we have no choice.
And through near-death
experiences--
and 14 million other
people just like me,
who's had some form of it--
we have created a
way that a paradigm
has come into existence.
It's here.
Dr. Raymond Moody, Ken Ring,
Bruce Greyson, Michael Saybom,
Betty Eddy--
some of the-- Ian Stevenson.
These names-- Ken Ring--
these names have
revolutionized--
Elizabeth Kruger
Ross-- these names
have revolutionized
how we view death.
I see the changes.
I see the changes in people
opening up, no critical care,
"Rights of the Dying,"
David Kessler, which
is an excellent book, that
tells you there's a revolution.
We're not listening
to that doctor.
We're making the decisions.
Quality and dignity of life.
Hospice itself came
to America in 1974.
And today, more than
92% of all doctors
won't refer a
patient to hospice.
But that was better than
100% five years ago.
>> Why not?
>> Because it means that
they've been defeated.
I'm not against the
medical community.
I work with the National
Institute of Health.
I look at research, the
National Cancer Society,
because in hospice work, you
have to be knowledgeable.
You have to
understand protocols.
You have to understand
pain management.
You have to
understand the things
that if you know about it,
you can best help your friend
in transition and the family.
You have to understand
these things.
But doctors have
been taught, they're
just as afraid of
dying as anybody else.
They compartmentalized
their identity
so they don't have to
emotionally get involved.
Then they just become chemists.
And I've watched this.
But I've seen a transition
in a lot of places.
One of the oddest places
that you would ever
imagine a revolution
is going on,
the Veterans Administration.
The VA is on the forefront.
And you have all those
horror stories about them.
And I know most of them.
>> They're terrible stories.
>> Well, I'm in there are a
lot, and a lot of that's true,
but there is a
revolution going on.
The VAs will lead us into the
21st century in a revolution.
>> What's happening?
How is that?
>> Health care is
changing, using alternative
and complementary.
They'll attempt to do anything.
They don't have as many
bias and prejudice.
They open their doors
to train people.
They're looking at hospice.
They're not afraid.
And yeah, there are old
boundaries and old ways,
but I am so proud
to work in the VAs.
And I'm proud.
And to see what the
capability and potential
is to revolutionize
consciousness,
to revolutionize consciousness.
And I'm so glad that I found it.
The Office of
Alternative Medicine
has become now the Center for
Alternative Medicine, where
the mainstream medical
profession is looking
at complementary and
alternative things, which
opens up a whole new world.
With the Wisdom channel,
now it's not fringe.
The Wisdom channel
is not fringe.
It's a specialty market.
>> I want to go back to
something that has for some
reason stayed in my mind.
It has resonated in my
mind since you said it.
A little while ago you said,
I've helped 171 people die.
And since you do it all
the time that must have--
that must mean you literally
just left your 171st person.
Is that true?
>> Mm-hmm.
Now listen to who
my 171st person is.
The guy who was on the
other end of the phone
when I was struck by lightning
in 1975, Tommy Hall, my best
friend.
It's his mom.
She will last only
a few days from now.
His mom.
I get to go--
at this stage of my
life, as I look at me--
back to the first day.
Back to a friend that I've
known since I was 10 years old.
Back to the other
end of the telephone.
And back to who is
literally my second mother.
She knows everything
about me from a kid.
And I'm there with her.
And we talk, and we explore
my life and her life,
and the art forms
that I've learned.
And I'm perfecting skills,
because she will answer
questions and tell me things.
>> She's not afraid?
>> Oh, no.
I mean, we've been together for
so long, we talked about it.
We went through it.
And I literally told
her, I said, you know,
your time here has
come and it's going.
And we had a family
review, like a life review,
where her family is as I see
them, create that comfort zone.
And then teach her
about the light,
and teach her about
the breathing.
And it's a thrill
to help Estelle.
It's a thrill.
It's a privilege.
I am not sad.
One of my sisters goes home
and I get a chance to help her.
And I get a chance to help
Bill, which is her husband,
and Tommy.
And this is where it all
started, 23 years ago, in 1975.
And today, I'm fulfilling
it by being there with them.
What more does a man
ask for in the distance
that he has traveled, and even
with the adversity, than be
able to bring that together
in a loving way, comforting
a family who has loved
you since a child,
and who you get to give
your love back in something
I'm not afraid of.
And they watch it,
and they see it.
And it's a sheer privilege.
To learn the art of transition
and to sit with someone
and use it, you will grow
so fast, so spiritually.
You will have such might,
comfort, and freedom
in your own identity.
You will change you and
the world around you.
It has happened to me.
And I'm proud that I
get the privilege to be
with people in transition.
I love them.
>> I will tell you what
else is a great privilege,
and that is speaking with you.
Thank you for visiting
with us today.
>> Thank you.
>> It was just wonderful
to talk with you.
>> My pleasure.
Absolute pleasure.
[MUSIC PLAYING]